# Z-factor-ml-prediction-
This repo contains all files and source code created as a result of completing this project

One of the most important properties of natural gas is the gas compressibility factor which is required to determine accurately important quantities in petroleum engineering such as formation volume factor, gas flow rate, gas expansion factor etc. The level of importance attached to this has led to several ways or methods of estimating the gas compressibility factor such as laboratory methods, equation of states, empirical correlations and the use of artificial intelligence. This study proposes a model that covers a wide and low range of pseudo-reduced temperature (Tpr) for the prediction of Z-factor.
Machine learning algorithms were used to build three models with a total of 1954 data points. The comparison between the Actual and Predicted Z-factor values showed that Gradient Boosted Decision Tree outperformed other proposed machine learning algorithms and published literature correlations. The proposed model had an R2 score, MAE, MSE and RMSE of 0.99962, 0.00561, 0.00010 and 0.01033 respectively. Variation of Z-factor with Pseudo Reduced Pressure at different Pseudo Reduced temperatures was examined using the isotherm plot. A general trend was observed for the isotherm plots, for 0.92, 0.95. 1.0, and 1.5 pseudo reduced temperatures, the isotherms on the lower portion of the plot significantly deviate from the ideal concave up, increasing relationship. This study identified Gradient Boosted Decision Tree as a single model that can predict z-factor using low and wide range of pseudo reduced temperature and pressure.
